# Airbnb-Seattle
Predicting optimum pricing for existing lisitngs on Airbnb

## Overview
AirBnb claims that ‘Shared Homes’ creates an extra income for existing homeowners and provides local experience to visiting tourists, creating a win-win situation. Any home owner with spare space can list the space and can host an Airbnb listing. Listing price is decided by home owner and in no way reflects the listing market in the neighbourhood. Many home owners are not capable enough or don’t want to research the listing market resulting in lower earnings. This project aims to use data generated by AirBnb in Seattle, Washington area to find interesting patterns and insights. We are trying to get the optimum price for the already existing listings and suggest them to the hosts.

## Dataset
The dataset was taken from ‘Inside Airbnb’ website – [Data Source](http://insideairbnb.com/get-the-data.html) </br>
Inside AirBnb’ is an independent and non-commercialized platform which publishes publicly available information on AirBnb listings. We extracted data for listings in Seattle city for a time period of Jan 2019 to Jan 2020. </br>
Following is the brief summary for dataset: </br>

File Name     | Dimensions (Rows X Columns) | Information 
------------- | --------------------------- | ----------
Listing.csv   | 8.4K X 106                  | Contains information about listings. For Eg: Number of Bed Rooms, Listing Summary, Location                                                 and  IsSuperHost etc
Calendar.csv  | 3.09M X 7                   | Contains information about 365 days (Jan 2019 to Jan 2020) of each listing(8.4K X 365). For                                                 Eg: Price, Availability etc.
Reviews.csv   | 380.48K X 6                 | Contains reviews by users for listings.(Only verified visitors are allowed to post  reviews)


